---
title: Linux It's Pros And Cons
date: "2015-05-06T23:46:37.121Z"
---

* Open Source :- What is it like when you buy a car, You don't know how the car and its components work, Similarly it's the case when you use a Windows System. However, in contrast, Linux is an open-source project. This means that you can have a look at the source code of a Linux Kernel, I know, most people don't care about this openness of Linux, but to me, this is the most important feature of using Linux. Windows Might be a target to a lot of bugs and this is because of Windows Being a closed source OS but on the other side Linux's Code Might be available for everyone to see, even to hackers Linux Users are more secure because If 1 Hacker is scanning the code for bugs there might be 10 people searching for bugs to patch it as soon as possible, to find and solve the same Bug.

* Secure :- Let's face it Windows is vulnerable to different types of attacks (or hacks). However, Linux is not as vulnerable as Windows. It sure isn't invulnerable, but it is a lot more secure. Although, there's no rocket science behind it.It is just the way Linux works that makes it a secure operating system. Overall, the process of package management, the concept of repositories, and a couple more features makes it possible for Linux to be more secure than Windows

* Old Hardware :- When an OS gets updates it becomes heavier and resource-heavy. This could be a problem for people who are using older hardware and want a safe and reliable OS for their machine. Here Linux comes into the picture With Linux, You can run tasks in even less than 300 MB of RAM, Which is insane. On Average, your computer might have 4GB to 8GB of RAM. This means that you can use your ram towards your tasks rather than using it on running the Windows OS

* Better For Programming :- Linux supports almost all of the major programming languages such as Python, C/C++, Java, Perl, Ruby, C#, and many more. Moreover, it offers a vast range of applications useful for programming purposes.The Linux terminal is superior to use over Window's PowerShell or Windows CMD. You would find many libraries developed natively for Linux. Also, a lot of programmers point out that the package manager on Linux helps them install things easily. Using package managers helps them to never worry about updates or newer releases because the package manager automatically takes care of it, saving your time and making your day more productive and simple
                 
* Can Run Anywhere :- As We, All Know Linux Can Run anywhere from supercomputers to raspberry pie's, And Linux even can run on your toaster too. In IoT, Linux is booming Linux being an open-source OS can be customizable to your needs and requirements This makes Linux very lightweight and extremely flexible and this is all because of Linux's Feature that the Internet is running. Over 60-70% of the internet is run on Linux Apache Servers. EVEN Microsoft uses Linux on its Cloud Services Platform, Azure, And Even Amazon runs Linux on AWS also Amazon has its own flavor of Linux, Amazon Linux.
                 
* Lack Of Software Support :- What do you look for in an operating system? For most people, the answer might be ease of use and compatibility, Linux might be a compact system but in comparison to Windows 10 In terms of software support Linux doesn't even come close to Windows 10 You can never run Microsoft Office or Adobe CC Software on your Linux machine natively. You can find ways around by using 3rd party software which may be buggy or only supporting limited hardware.
                      
* Community Support :- The Linux community Sure might be large but in comparison to the Windows 10 community, The Linux community can be represented by a Pea Pod in a Jungle. I'm Sure there are Linux experts which could guide you when you run into some problems but In Windows, If something does go drastically wrong with your Windows machine, you have several avenues open to you. Microsoft itself offers live text chat and telephone support, while every PC repair shop technician in the country is familiar with the operating system and how it works.
                 
* Driver Support :- Windows 10 typically gets new drivers first, closely followed by macOS. Linux-based systems are lucky if they receive any drivers. The upshot is the Linux community develops open-source drivers that ship with Linux distros.The Open Source Philosophy which Linux follows might only let you use the free and open-source drivers out there which can lead you to have a terrible experience. I'm Sure There are way around to this but if you're a newbie, it can be tough to navigate through the forums
                 
* Gaming :- Gaming is the main reason why gamers and e-sports players prefer Windows 10 instead of Linux despite its Advantages. The Visual Drivers such as NVIDIA Graphics Drivers are closed source which is against the Linux ideology and which is making Linux users have a hard time gaming, which promotes them to switch to windows for gaming and driver support 
                  
* Great UI/UX :- One of the main reasons why Windows users use Windows 10 is because it has a great UI compared to Linux. For many users, the idea of creating bootable USB drives or installation CDs is bewildering. But Of course, Ubuntu is one of a new slew of apps that are available in the Windows Store, so that should help make Linux more accessible. But if you're not running Windows 10, or you want to run a non-Ubuntu distro, it's as hard as ever.
                